## About ECCE App Challenge:

The ECCE App Challenge is an annual competetition that engages teams of students at each of the [Esri Canada GIS Centers of Excellence](https://ecce.esri.ca/wpecce/schools/) in the creation of innovative GIS applications within a one-week period, using Esri technology and Open Data to address a specific theme.  Full details of the App Challenge can be found on the [ECCE website](https://ecce.esri.ca/app-challenge/).  The ECCE App Challenge in 2022 is the eighth iteration of the competition, which has been held annually since 2015.  All submissions from student teams participating in the challenge in previous years remain available in their [corresponding repositories](https://github.com/EsriCanada-CE?q=ecce-app-challenge&sort=name) on GitHub.  Starting with the 2017 challenge, you may view team profiles, videos, and apps online through the [ECCE GitHub web page](https://esricanada-ce.github.io).

For 2022, teams participating the challenge were tasked to create an app that addresses issues related a new theme that is revealed as they start their week.  All submissions will completed by April 8th, 2022.  The code and documentation from each team will be included in subfolders in this repository, organized by team name.  To introduce you better to this year's particpating students, you will be able to 'meet the teams' on the ECCE GitHub webpage for the 2022 App Challenge (to be revealed after April 8th).  You will find each team's details presented, along with links to live versions of their apps hosted online, documentation, and video presentations.
