# GeoWellness App: Improving Global Wellness Through Geomatics Solutions
Visit our [web app](https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/7b05f4967b4242f19e7df23afa8f86a1/), or click the link below!<br/>
Main APP: https://experience.arcgis.com/experience/7b05f4967b4242f19e7df23afa8f86a1/
## Team:
- Qiyi Cai (Eric)
- Wenxuan Zhu (Vanessa)
- Yuankai Ning (Kai)
## Mission Statement
  Natural disaster endangers people’s lives and their own properties. In November 2021, severe floodings heavily hit people’s life in British Columbia. The disaster resulted in an approximately 450 million dollars loss. It became the costliest extreme weather disaster in the history of British Columbia according to the Insurance Bureau of Canada. The actual loss due to the flood might be even higher. This event impacts many people’s lives and until this day, there are people still out of their homes, including the indigenous communities[^1]. According to the 2016 Census from Statistic Canada. British Columbia has the second largest Aboriginal population equivalents to 16.2% of the total Aboriginal in Canada[^2][^3]. Over 60 First Nation communities were impacted by this event. The indigenous community in British Columbia deserves more attention and help from society.  

 Indigenous Communities are vulnerable to natural disasters and often at high risk of displacement. Even though B.C. provides an Emergency Management Plan including mitigation, preparation, response, and recovery, and especially works in collaboration with indigenous groups to help them on disaster preparedness[^4], indigenous communities suffer more than expected in the November flooding event. There is an inseparable relationship between indigenous people and SDGs. On the one hand, indigenous people work as a major group to collaborate with several groups to improve the gender quality[^5]; On the other hand, helping First Nations in various aspects is also an important progress to improve the SDGs. By providing more access to the knowledge of resisting and adapting natural disasters and hazards, Indigenous people can lower the risk with early warning systems, resiliency buildings, mitigation and adaptation knowledge, etc[^6]. Indigenous people are relatively vulnerable to climate; what makes it worse, indigenous communities may not receive the disaster warning message from relevant agency ahead of time[^7]. Helping First Nations to learn or set up a warning system may not only save more lives, but also improve SDG #10: Reduced inequalities. Lastly, SDG #9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) and SDG #13 (Climate Action) can be improved by helping indigenous communities construct more resilient buildings with sustainable materials, more resistant to natural disasters and friendly to environment.

  The GeoWellness mission in this challenge is to raise people’s awareness about the indigenous situation in the flood event. Our vision is to improve the wellness of indigenous people through Geomatics solutions. Thus, the two web applications we developed are designed for providing insight to the users about the flood impact on the indigenous group and the accessibility of Emergency Social Service (ESS) to the aboriginal people. With the information, people can understand the severity of the disaster to the indigenous people, and what can be improved regarding the availability of ESS in order to support people in disaster.
## Web Description and Application Features
This application aims to improve the awareness of people towards Indigenous situatino in flood events in British Columbia (B.C.) province.
### *Home*
From the home page, the navigation bar shows all four web pages and users can click on them to directly visit each page. Applications can be either accessed by clicking the blue button at the upper-right corner, or there is another button at the bottom right of the main screen. Besides, the name of our application "GeoWellness APP" and slogan "Improving people's awareness of the indigenous situation in flooding events" can be found on the right side of the main page.

### *Indigenous Wellness*
**Indigenous Wellness** page contains two sections. Section **_Indigenous_** introduces why we choose our topic to be related to flood events and focuses on indigenous people as the major group, along with the inconvenience of reaching emergency social service facilities (ESS) and vulnerability dealing with Flooding attacks, supported with two maps generated by ourselves. Section **_Sustainable Development Goals_** page follows the other section, introducing how our topic and application may relate to the four mentioned SDGs.<br />
#### _How to Use:_
Either click the 'up' and 'down' arrows or click on the list of blue dots to go through pages. Users can be directly navigated to corresponding sections by clicking the two-sections cards on the first page. There is a 'Back' button at the upper-right corner that leads users back to the section card page. Lastly, click on the images for four SDGs will redirect to the corresponding pages.

### *About Us*
Two sections are included. **_Our Mission_** summarizes the mission statement and briefly introduces the main purposes of our applications. **_Team_** page displays memebers' pictures and short bios.
#### _How to Use:_
Either click the 'left' and 'right' arrows or click on the list of blue dots at bottom to go through pages.

### *Flood Impact Application*
Flood Impact Application aims to help users understand how indigenous communities may suffer from flood events. Five layers enable users to learn about to what extent 29 regional districts (RDs) or indigenous communities and locations are affected by floodplains. It is up to you to compare either layers to layers or the potential patterns existing among regional layers! Enjoy using **_search_**, **_filter_**, and **_bookmark_** widgets during the progress, all widgets provide user-defined options. If you like this application, feel free to share with your friends using the **_share_** widget.

### *Emergency Service Application*
Emergency Service Application aims to visualize the driving routes from indigenous locations to the nearest ESS facilities, along with the heatmap map showing the distribution of ESS facilities. Search for your interested locations or filter to check whether an indigenous location has the nearest ESS facilities in three pre-defined driving distance levels. Enjoy using **_search_**, **_filter_**, and **_bookmark_** widgets during the progress, and feel free to share with your friends using the **_share_** widget.

## Geospatial Open Data Source
### *Open Government:*
- First Nation Locaiton: https://open.canada.ca/data/en/dataset/b6567c5c-8339-4055-99fa-63f92114d9e4
- Aboriginal Lands of Canada Legislative Boundaries: https://open.canada.ca/data/en/dataset/b6567c5c-8339-4055-99fa-63f92114d9e4
### *DataBC:*
- Emergency Social Services Facilities: https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/emergency-social-services-facilities
- Current Census Division Boundaries:https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/current-census-division-boundaries
- Guide to Indigenous Organizations: https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/guide-to-indigenous-organizations-and-services-in-bc
- Mapped Floodplains in BC (Historical): https://catalogue.data.gov.bc.ca/dataset/mapped-floodplains-in-bc-historical

## Technologies
- ArcGIS Online
- ArcGIS Pro
- ArcGIS for Python API
- Experience Builder

## Spatial Analysis and Calculations
### *Spatial Analysis*
#### State of Spatial Analysis:
Our Spatial Analysis are using multiple spatial analysis tools in ArcGIS Pro and ArcGIS online.
#### Specific Tools of Spatial Analysis:
| <b>Data Layers</b> | <b>Original Layers</b> | <b>Spatial Tools</b>|
| --- | --- | --- |
|Count of Flooding Impacted Indigenous Locations|Mapped Floodplains in BC<br/>First Nation Locaiton<br/>Current Census Division Boundaries|Spatial Join<br/>|
|Count of Flooding Impacted Indigenous Organizations|Mapped Floodplains in BC<br/>Guide to Indigenous Organizations<br/>Current Census Division Boundaries|Spatial Analysis (Intersect, Summarize within)<br/>|
|Area Ratio of Flooding Impacted Indigenous Living Areas|Mapped Floodplains in BC<br/>Aboriginal Lands of Canada Legislative Boundaries<br/>Current Census Division Boundaries|Spatial Join<br/>|
|Area Ratio of Flooding Impacted Regional Districts|Mapped Floodplains in BC<br/>Current Census Division Boundaries|Spatial Join<br/>|
|Heatmap of B.C. Emergency Facilities|Current Census Division Boundaries<br/>Emergency Social Services Facilities|Spatial Join<br/>|
|Driving Routes from Indigenous to Facilities|First Nation Locaiton<br/>Emergency Social Services Facilities|Identify the Closest Facility<br/>|

### *Calculations*
#### State of Calculations:
Our calculations are using ArcGIS for Python API based on Spatial Analysis Results in ArcGIS Pro and ArcGIS online.
#### Calculations Steps:
##### _Ratio Calculation_
Ratio Calculations are based on the spatial join and summarize within results. It is calculated by: `Ratio = (Sum of Pieced Area in each Census)/(Area of each Census)`<br/>
* _For Area Ratio of Flooding Impacted Indigenous Living Area:_ <br/>
 &nbsp; Pieced Area refers to indigenous' the flooding impacted regional distincts.<br/>
* _For Area Ratio of Flooding Impacted Regional Distincts:_ <br/>
&nbsp; Pieced Area refers to all the flooding impacted regional distincts.<br/>

##### _Normalization_
Normalizations are based on the area ratio results. As is mentioned above, the ratio results are presented in a huge range and some of them are calculated into a pretty low level, which is even lower than 0.01%. Then, the normalization should be used to make the results more readable and analyzable. The normalization of the ratio ensures the result of the ratio can be presented in the range of 0 to 1. It is calculated using the Min-Max feature scaling in the format of:
                                                                `Xnorm= (X-Xmin)/(Xmax-Xmin)`





## Reference
*Figures:* [^8] [^9] [^10] [^11] [^12] [^13] [^14] [^15]
[^1]: B.C. floods cause at least $450M in damage, Insurance Bureau of Canada reports https://bc.ctvnews.ca/b-c-floods-cause-at-least-450m-in-damage-insurance-bureau-of-canada-reports-1.5701295
[^2]: Data tables, 2016 Census https://www12.statcan.gc.ca/census-recensement/2016/dp-pd/dt-td/Index-eng.cfm
[^3]: 2016 CENSUS HIGHLIGHTS: Factsheet 10 https://www.fin.gov.on.ca/en/economy/demographics/census/cenhi16-10.html
[^4]: Emergency management in B.C. https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/safety/emergency-management
[^5]: Major Group: Indigenous Peoples https://sdgs.un.org/statements/major-group-indigenous-peoples-11579
[^6]: Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development https://sdgs.un.org/2030agenda
[^7]: Indigenous communities hit hard by B.C. floods say they received no warning, are getting little help https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/british-columbia/indigenous-floods-no-warning-1.6257487
[^8]: Indigenous Wellness 1 https://www.humanium.org/en/canadas-indigenous-children/
[^9]: Indigenous Wellness 2  https://www.sdgphilanthropy.org/home
[^10]: Flood impact App https://www.cbc.ca/radio/asithappens/canada-day-vigil-protest-residential-schools-honour-indigenous-children-march-1.6087621
[^11]: Emergency Service App https://www.cbc.ca/radio/asithappens/canada-day-vigil-protest-residential-schools-honour-indigenous-children-march-1.6087621
[^12]: SDG #4 https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal4
[^13]: SDG #9 https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal9
[^14]: SDG #10 https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal10
[^15]: SDG #13 https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal13
